In this section, I would like to talk about
fear of Robots. As roboticists we might have
a different perception or view of robots to
the general population. We believe that robots
are fun and cool in the future but perhaps
not everybody shares that view. I particularly
like this advertisement, was for Dodge Charger
and it came out in 2013. I can’t show you
all of the video here but the advertisement
is exploiting a general unease in the population
about the future of robots and suggesting
that we wouldn't want a self-driving car that
is going to end very, very badly for human
kind.
But then, there are dancing robots and everybody
seems to love dancing humanoid robots so here
we see three simple humanoid robots doing
some choreographed dancing. So this is a kind
of robot that generally doesn't invoke fear
and loathing in the general population.
And then there are robotic movie characters
such as Wall-e and Eve, which are quite non-threatening,
and in fact, quite endearing.
In contrast with robots like this from the
Terminator franchise which are actually quite
scary and intimidating. Here we have a scene
with a large number of robots; these robots
here individually look quite benign, they
look quite human like, they have got nice
gentle facial expressions but personally,
I find this scene rather unsettling and I
think it is the fact that it is not just one
robot but it is the fact that there is row
upon row upon row of robots, which I find
unsettling. Perhaps, also because all these
robots look exactly the same.
Here is a very famous robotics researcher
with his robotic clone. Some people may have
absolutely no problem with an image like this
but other people might find such a scene rather unsettling.
That leads us to a phenomena which is called
the Uncanny Valley. The Uncanny Valley is
represented by this graph here and on the
horizontal access we have an indication of
how life-like the robot is.
We can go from being not life-like at all
to completely life-like
and in the vertical axis we have upwards that we find the robot attractive
and downwards we find the robots to be repulsive.
Now, the notion of the Uncanny Valley was
first hypothesized by Professor Mori and I
had the delightful opportunity to meet him
at IROS conference in 2013.
So if we consider the Uncanny Valley hypothesis,
what we see is that as the likeness to a human
being increases, we find the robot to be more
and more attractive. But at a certain point,
we then find that as it becomes more life-like
we find it to become less attractive, perhaps
even to become repulsive. Now as it becomes
more life-like still, it becomes, again, attractive to us.
And this effect is exaggerated if the robot
is moving. Here is a very simplistic humanoid
robot. It doesn’t look much like a human
at all. It’s got some sort of face, it’s
got what look like eyes and a mouth and most
people have no problem with a robot like this.
It is kind of cute; it is a little bit retro.
If we had a robot that looks like this, looks
very, very life-like, most of us would find
that quite attractive as well. But if we have
a robot that looks not quite right, something
a little bit off, maybe it is something in
the eyes are not right, the facial expression
is not quite right, we find a robot like this
to be actually quite repellent. This is the
interesting affect which is called the Uncanny
Valley.
So what I would like to do now, is to speculate
a little bit about where this fear of robots
might come from, particularly the fear of
robots in human form. I believe a lot of it
is down to cultural baggage and particularly
in the western Judeo Christian culture; there
are probably echoes of the ancient Jewish
legend of the Golem. The Golem was a human-like
creature fashioned from clay by a Holy man.
The Golem would serve its creators and protect
them but occasionally they would run amok
and cause great havoc and damage. So the Golem
was a mixed blessing, it could do good but
it could also do bad.
A more recent influence in western culture,
I believe, comes from the story of Frankenstein,
Mary Shelly’s 1818 novel, in which the creature
turns on its creator Dr. Frankenstein and
this story of the creation turning on the
creator is the foundation for many, many of
the robot stories that we read today in science
fiction books and in science fiction movies.
Talking to friends and colleagues in Japan,
I get a sense that they are less fearful,
less intimidated by machines built in human
form. I am going out on a bit of a limb here,
but I think the difference is in the cultural
baggage; they haven't grown up with the cultural
tradition of the Golem or the cultural tradition
of the Frankenstein story. I think, in their
religious beliefs they can see a life force in all sorts of objects whether they are animate or inanimate.
So this is entirely speculation on my part,
but I think it is the difference in the cultural
heritage of the West and the East that perhaps
makes people from Japan more accommodating
of robots in humanoid form and at certainly
where the technological push to create humanoid
robots first came from. The West has really been playing catch up when it comes to humanoid robots.